Fix Backup and Restore (#4353)
owncloud/docs: modules/admin_manual/pages/maintenance/backup_and_restore/restore.adoc

== Introduction

Depending how the ownCloud instance has been installed, you may need slightly different steps to restore it from a backup.

> In any case you need the following components from your backup:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In any case, you need the following components from your backup:
```

.  The `config/` directory.
.  The `data/` directory. +
Note that the `data/` directory may not only contain user files, but also keys for encryption.
.  The `apps/` directory. +
Note that this is only necessary if you are not using the `apps-external/` directory and have added own apps or themes.
.  The `apps-external/` directory. +

> Note that this is only necessary if available.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that this is only necessary if it exists and is in use.
```

.  The ownCloud database.
.  The custom theme files, if you had any. See xref:developer_manual:core/theming.adoc[Theming ownCloud]. +
Note that theme files are usually located in either the `apps/` or `apps-external/` directory.

> IMPORTANT: In case you have customized user home direcories or a custom location for encryption keys, you have to manually take care backing them up and restoring them to the same location.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: If you have customized user home directories or a custom location for encryption keys, you have to manually take care backing them up and restoring them to the same location.
```

> IMPORTANT: If you have customized user home directories or a custom location for encryption keys, you have to manually take care backing them up and restoring them to the same location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: If you have customized user home directories or a custom location for encryption keys, you have to manually take care of backing them up and restoring them to the same location.
```

== Prerequisites

> To secure your restore process, stop the web server until restore has finished to prevent user access:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To secure your restore process, stop the web server until the restore has finished to prevent user access:
```

> To ensure secure your restore process, stop your webserver to prevent users trying to access ownCloud via the web. As an alternative, you can stop serving the virtual host for ownCloud:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure a secure restore process, stop your web server to prevent users from accessing ownCloud via the web. As an alternative, you can stop serving the virtual host for ownCloud:
```

[source,console,subs="attributes+"]
----
sudo service apache2 stop
----

== Restore Scenarios

Tarball Installation::
. If you have installed ownCloud from a tarball, you can safely restore the entire installation from the backup, with the exception of your ownCloud database. Databases cannot be copied, instead you must use the database tools to make a correct restoration.

. You may also install a new instance from a tarball and restore the directories named above and the database. To avoid issues, use the same tarball version as the ownCloud version from the backup.

Package Installation::
If you have installed ownCloud from packages, start with a fresh ownCloud package installation in a new, empty directory. Then restore the above items from your xref:maintenance/backup_and_restore/backup.adoc[Backup].
+

> NOTE: Only copy those files and folders from the `apps/` backup directory which are NOT present after installing. Do not overwrite items of the `apps/` directory in the new installation. This will avoid a fail of the code integrity check and other errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Only copy those files and folders from the `apps/` backup directory which are NOT present after the installation. Do not overwrite items of the `apps/` directory in the new installation. This will prevent a failing code integrity check and other errors.
```

After you have completed restoring files, see how to xref:installation/manual_installation/manual_installation.adoc#script-guided-installation[Set Correct Permissions].

//missing docker...

=== Restore Directories

> If possible, simply copy the directories from your backup to your new ownCloud environment, for example by running the following command from the backup directory. The example copies all directories named above:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If possible, simply copy the directories from your backup to your new ownCloud environment, for example by running the following command from the backup directory. The following example command copies all directories mentioned above:
```

   FROM oc_filecache
   WHERE path = 'path/to/the/file/to/restore'
     AND storage = <numeric_id>

3. Retrieve the backup, which includes the data folder and database.

4. Retrieve the required file from your backup and copy it to the real instance.

5. In the backup database, retrieve the file's `encrypted` value by running
   the query below and store the value for later reference.
   The example query assumes the storage was the same and the file was in the same location.
   If not, you will need to track down where the file was before.

   SELECT encrypted
   FROM oc_filecache
   WHERE path = 'path/to/the/file/to/restore'
     AND storage = <numeric_id>

6. Update the live database instance with retrieved information, by running the
   following query, substituting the placeholders for the retrieved values:

   UPDATE oc_filecache
     SET encrypted = <encrypted>
     WHERE fileid = <fileid>.

== Final Tasks

=== Reactivate Your Instance

Take the following tasks to reactivate your ownCloud instance:

.Update the systems data-fingerprint after a backup is restored
[source,console,subs="attributes+"]
----
{occ-command-example-prefix} maintenance:data-fingerprint
----

> .Bring back owncloud into narmal operation mode

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Bring back ownCloud into normal operation mode
```

[source,console,subs="attributes+"]
----
{occ-command-example-prefix} maintenance:mode --off
----

.Start the web server
[source,console,subs="attributes+"]
----
sudo service apache2 start
----

=== Restore Cron Jobs

> This is only necessary when you accidentially deleted the crontab entries, restore to a different server like when you have a physical migration or you needed to resetup a server from scratch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is only necessary when you accidentally deleted the crontab entries, restore to a different server like when you have a physical migration or you needed to resetup a server from scratch.
```

   | local::/var/www/owncloud/data/ |          2 |         1 |         NULL |
   | home::user1                    |          3 |         1 |         NULL |
   +--------------------------------+------------+-----------+--------------+

2. In the live database instance, find the `fileid` of the file to restore by
   running the query below, substituting the placeholders for the retrieved
   values, and store the value for later reference.

   SELECT fileid
   FROM oc_filecache
   WHERE path = 'path/to/the/file/to/restore'
     AND storage = <numeric_id>

3. Retrieve the backup, which includes the data folder and database.

4. Retrieve the required file from your backup and copy it to the real instance.

5. In the backup database, retrieve the file's `encrypted` value by running
   the query below and store the value for later reference.
   The example query assumes the storage was the same and the file was in the same location.
   If not, you will need to track down where the file was before.

   SELECT encrypted
   FROM oc_filecache
   WHERE path = 'path/to/the/file/to/restore'
     AND storage = <numeric_id>

> 6. Update the live database instance with retrieved information, by running the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Update the live database instance with the retrieved information, by running the
```

>    following query, substituting the placeholders for the retrieved values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   following query, substituting the placeholders with the retrieved values:
```

   UPDATE oc_filecache
     SET encrypted = <encrypted>
     WHERE fileid = <fileid>.

== Final Tasks

=== Reactivate Your Instance

> Take the following tasks to reactivate your ownCloud instance:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Perform the following tasks to reactivate your ownCloud instance:
```

.Update the systems data-fingerprint after a backup is restored
[source,console,subs="attributes+"]
----
{occ-command-example-prefix} maintenance:data-fingerprint
----

.Bring back ownCloud into normal operation mode
[source,console,subs="attributes+"]
----
{occ-command-example-prefix} maintenance:mode --off
----

.Enable browser access

> Start your web server, or alternatively re-enable the virtual host serving ownCloud:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start your web server, or alternatively enable the virtual host serving ownCloud:
```

[source,console]
----
sudo service apache2 start
----

=== Restore Cron Jobs

> This is only necessary when you accidentally deleted the crontab entries, restore to a different server like when you have a physical migration or you needed to resetup a server from scratch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is only necessary if you accidentally deleted the crontab entries, or you're restoring to a different server to carry out a physical migration or you need to set up a server from scratch.
```
